docs/railway.mdx, before:

---
title: Deploy on Railway
---

Deploy Clawdbot on Railway with a one-click template and finish setup in your browser.
This is the easiest “no terminal on the server” path: Railway runs the Gateway for you,
and you configure everything via the `/setup` web wizard.

## Quick checklist (new users)

1) Click **Deploy on Railway** (below).
2) Add a **Volume** mounted at `/data`.
3) Set the required **Variables** (at least `SETUP_PASSWORD`).
4) Enable **HTTP Proxy** on port `8080`.
5) Open `https://<your-railway-domain>/setup` and finish the wizard.

## One-click deploy

<a href="https://railway.com/deploy/clawdbot-railway-template" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer">Deploy on Railway</a>

After deploy, find your public URL in **Railway → your service → Settings → Domains**.

Railway will either:
- give you a generated domain (often `https://<something>.up.railway.app`), or
- use your custom domain if you attached one.

Then open:

- `https://<your-railway-domain>/setup` — setup wizard (password protected)
- `https://<your-railway-domain>/clawdbot` — Control UI

## What you get

- Hosted Clawdbot Gateway + Control UI
- Web setup wizard at `/setup` (no terminal commands)
- Persistent storage via Railway Volume (`/data`) so config/credentials/workspace survive redeploys
- Backup export at `/setup/export` to migrate off Railway later

## Required Railway settings

### Public Networking

Enable **HTTP Proxy** for the service.

- Port: `8080`

### Volume (required)

Attach a volume mounted at:

- `/data`

### Variables

Set these variables on the service:

- `SETUP_PASSWORD` (required)
- `CLAWDBOT_STATE_DIR=/data/.clawdbot` (recommended)
- `CLAWDBOT_WORKSPACE_DIR=/data/workspace` (recommended)
- `CLAWDBOT_GATEWAY_TOKEN` (recommended; treat as an admin secret)

## Setup flow

1) Visit `https://<your-railway-domain>/setup` and enter your `SETUP_PASSWORD`.
2) Choose a model/auth provider and paste your key.
3) (Optional) Add Telegram/Discord/Slack tokens.
4) Click **Run setup**.

If Telegram DMs are set to pairing, the setup wizard can approve the pairing code.

## Getting chat tokens

### Telegram bot token

1) Message `@BotFather` in Telegram
2) Run `/newbot`
3) Copy the token (looks like `123456789:AA...`)
4) Paste it into `/setup`

### Discord bot token

1) Go to https://discord.com/developers/applications
2) **New Application** → choose a name
3) **Bot** → **Add Bot**
4) Copy the **Bot Token** and paste into `/setup`
5) Invite the bot to your server (OAuth2 URL Generator; scopes: `bot`, `applications.commands`)

## Backups & migration

Download a backup at:

- `https://<your-railway-domain>/setup/export`

This exports your Clawdbot state + workspace so you can migrate to another host without losing config or memory.

Commit message:

Docs: fix Railway deploy URL and add PORT variable

docs/railway.mdx, after:

---
title: Deploy on Railway
---

Deploy Clawdbot on Railway with a one-click template and finish setup in your browser.
This is the easiest “no terminal on the server” path: Railway runs the Gateway for you,
and you configure everything via the `/setup` web wizard.

## Quick checklist (new users)

1) Click **Deploy on Railway** (below).
2) Add a **Volume** mounted at `/data`.
3) Set the required **Variables** (at least `SETUP_PASSWORD`).
4) Enable **HTTP Proxy** on port `8080`.
5) Open `https://<your-railway-domain>/setup` and finish the wizard.

## One-click deploy

<a href="https://railway.app/new/template?template=https://github.com/vignesh07/clawdbot-railway-template" target="_blank" rel="noreferrer">Deploy on Railway</a>

After deploy, find your public URL in **Railway → your service → Settings → Domains**.

Railway will either:
- give you a generated domain (often `https://<something>.up.railway.app`), or
- use your custom domain if you attached one.

Then open:

- `https://<your-railway-domain>/setup` — setup wizard (password protected)
- `https://<your-railway-domain>/clawdbot` — Control UI

## What you get

- Hosted Clawdbot Gateway + Control UI
- Web setup wizard at `/setup` (no terminal commands)
- Persistent storage via Railway Volume (`/data`) so config/credentials/workspace survive redeploys
- Backup export at `/setup/export` to migrate off Railway later

## Required Railway settings

### Public Networking

Enable **HTTP Proxy** for the service.

- Port: `8080`

### Volume (required)

Attach a volume mounted at:

- `/data`

### Variables

Set these variables on the service:

- `SETUP_PASSWORD` (required)
- `PORT=8080` (required — must match the port in Public Networking)
- `CLAWDBOT_STATE_DIR=/data/.clawdbot` (recommended)
- `CLAWDBOT_WORKSPACE_DIR=/data/workspace` (recommended)
- `CLAWDBOT_GATEWAY_TOKEN` (recommended; treat as an admin secret)

## Setup flow

1) Visit `https://<your-railway-domain>/setup` and enter your `SETUP_PASSWORD`.
2) Choose a model/auth provider and paste your key.
3) (Optional) Add Telegram/Discord/Slack tokens.
4) Click **Run setup**.

If Telegram DMs are set to pairing, the setup wizard can approve the pairing code.

## Getting chat tokens

### Telegram bot token

1) Message `@BotFather` in Telegram
2) Run `/newbot`
3) Copy the token (looks like `123456789:AA...`)
4) Paste it into `/setup`

### Discord bot token

1) Go to https://discord.com/developers/applications
2) **New Application** → choose a name
3) **Bot** → **Add Bot**
4) Copy the **Bot Token** and paste into `/setup`
5) Invite the bot to your server (OAuth2 URL Generator; scopes: `bot`, `applications.commands`)

## Backups & migration

Download a backup at:

- `https://<your-railway-domain>/setup/export`

This exports your Clawdbot state + workspace so you can migrate to another host without losing config or memory.
